Now that we've seen how to work directly with maps in the Google Maps API we're going to use another
one of its functions called geocoding and this will give us an opportunity to use aspects of the API
that doesn't actually require a map at all.
All right.
So geocoding is the process of taking an address and working out exactly where it is and that's something
that Google Maps does for you very nicely.
So if we click on samples again from the Google Maps javascript API page and you can see down here we've
got geo location.
So this is actually a really nice example which does a fair bit more than it needs to.
We get a little pop up which once you've given it permission it finds your location and puts it on a
map.
So let's grab all of that code and copy it and we'll have a quick look at it to see how it works.
And I'm going to copy everything above that final script because that because that contains my API key.
So then I'll just get rid of that bit from the demo code and then let's have a look.
So it loads up the map it requests to know your location.
And if you press allow then it shows you exactly where your location is.
So this time rather than go through the code in detail with you I'm going to set you a mini challenge
and that is change the code so as well as pointing to your location on the map it also alerts the user's
latitude and longitude.
Go for it.
All right.
Did you manage it.
Let's take a look.
So it should have been pretty simple once you've had a look at this card with familiar with this first
bit here which creates the Google map which then got an info window which I would guess is this location
found box which pops up.
And then here this is where it's doing the get current position.
And in fact here is where we get the latitude and longitude.
So to display them we can just use alerts and then something like Latitude and then we can get that
from the
Paul's array or position array and then we want the latitude or LAT within that array.
And then the longer cheat
will get again pause and then this time long.
All right let's take a look.
And there we go.
So the latitude there and the longer G.
So now that we've seen how to get the users location we're going to see how to geocoder with the Google
Maps API.
And this is again how to get the full details of an address or a particular location.
So click back on Google Maps API Ice Ice ice ice then.
Now we're going to look at Web services.
So the web API is that we've just looked integrate directly into your HDMI pages webservices work a
bit more like a traditional API in that we call a particularly u r l and then get some data back from
that.
So let's see how we make that work.
First off we're going to keep this was exactly the same way as with the Google Maps javascript API and
I'm just going to create a new project again and that will generate the API key bullets going.
Let's jump back to our Web services documentation page and click Google Maps geocoding API.
And here we go.
So you can see the geocoding is purpose of taking an address and converting it into geographical coordinates.
It also will fill out the address for us.
So for example it will take a part of an address and make it into a full address with person and everything
else which will help us with the postcode app that we're going to make in the next video.
Say Here we go we're going to make a request to this you are out and it's going to return in Jasen or
X amount and we're going to be using japes on him.
So I'm going to scroll down feel free to read the documentation a bit more detail but I'm going to get
straight to an example.
So here's a fool you are el let's copy it in see
web page.
So we're going to get rid of everything here and we're going to start by doing this in ph p.
So this is the you are a lot we need obviously we need to replace the API key without IP key which should
now almost have been created just need to click Create there and then that will create the key for us.
And there it is.
And it's a copy that the
onto our you Arel and then we'll use file get contents
to get the contents of the U r l.
So let's take a look at that.
So you can see straight away immediately we've got everything that we need so I've got an address components
here.
Long name short name etc..
We've got the town or city the state country and the zip code there as well.
And finally we've got the latitude and longitude.
So we've already processed Jason with BHP.
We're going to do with javascript this time or specifically with Jay query and this will prepare for
our postcode web app.
So to get the contents of a well using javascript or Jake where we use AJAX and normally Ajax is linked
to our else on the same domain as your code but there are some exceptions.
And one of those is the data is encoded in JSM and when that's the case we can do what's known as I
crossed the main request to get the data.
So let's Firstly get Jacquard back in our app.
I'll do that with a J.
CDN Google search Cydia and being content delivery network.
And I'll go for the Google dot com CDN and there we go.
We'll go for this one.
All right.
I'll leave that there for the moment.
That will create a very simple HDMI out page with just a title
geocoding and address and then a body.
And then just after that we're going to have our Jake Query.
So let's write some javascript to get our data and set up Javascript.
And then the AJAX call is going to be pretty similar to what we used to but with a couple of small differences.
So we start off as before calling the Ajax function and then we're going to do this with a bunch of
parameters.
The first one is going to be as usual the you are.
And that of course is going to be the same as what we had before.
And then we'll add a type of get.
So this is I get to request for other than a post one because we're just getting something we're not
posting any variables and then we just need to add a function to happen on success.
So when the data is returned.
So let's create a function which will contain the variable data and then find out.
We'll just consult or log the chase on data and then if I spell a function correctly we'll now be able
to get the data via Ajax rather than THP say let's have a look.
And right click and inspect.
Let's take a look at the Kenzo and you can see we've got an object there.
And this has all the data that we need in that we're seeing before.
So if for example we wanted to get these address components say the number the route of code name it
set.
Then we'd have to loop through this particular chase on array.
So for example we could use the J query each function which loops three objects in an array just like
this.
And we want to loop through the results part of our data because that's where all the results are contained.
So we want to apply the each function on data
results and then and then we want to do something with that data.
So we'll create a function.
And in this function we're going to have a key and a value and the key is going to represent the name
so that there and the value is going to represent the valley.
So 6900 all that array there
and then
we'll create that and then for now we'll just let the key just to see what we get.
Let's take a look.
There you can see we've got zero there.
And that's because within the results there's only one item and that's this whole array containing all
of our data.
So let's not we're in a little bit and loop through results zero instead.
So this will be the first set of results and you can see that the first key within that is address components
and then formatted address geometry place ID types.
So that's these elements here for address geometry place id and types.
So if we want to get the address components we could go even further into that and look at the address
components array.
Let's now have a leap through that so called 0 1 2 3 etc. you get the idea.
So that's looping through each of these sub arrays.
So now that you know roughly how these things work I'm just going to get you a mini challenge can you
get the country.
So can you add some code from here to get the United States or US from this data.
It's not easy but you should be able to figure it out.
Go for it.
I hope you managed it.
So the way I'm going to do it is looking at a value and value is this right here.
And then this one and this one.
So for each of the values we want to be looking at value and types and we want to find the one that
has a type of country so notice that types itself is an array.
So the bit that we're going to be interested is types Zerbe which is the first item in the types array
that say let's take a look that's first of just see what that value is.
So starts off as street number root locality minister dev area and country.
So we want to check to see if
the type that is Valley types crime is equal to a country.
Then we want to alert the long name or the short name.
So let's just go for value.
Short name
Let's take a look.
And then we got so I hope you figured out something fairly.
Essentially it's a matter of looping through until we find the type that we want and then extracting
that data.
Great.
So now that we're reasonably familiar with the Google Maps API is we're going to make a little Wailer
a little web app that allows people to extract the postcode or zip code closest to an address.